All right.
So in this lesson, we'll learn about how to create two way data binding between our components data
and our text input.
What is the benefit of two way data binding?
It ensures that our components, data and the input field are always in sync.
So whenever our data changes, we're going to update the value in the input field, and that's what
we saw in the previous lesson.
And now we're going to ensure that that process works in reverse.
Whenever we update the input field in the browser, we want to automatically change our components data
property so they are aligned and equal to each other, which creates less of a chance for error.
Okay, so how do we do that?
Well, what we need to do is to react to a user typing a value into an input field.
Well, whenever we react to some kind of event, you may recall that we use the V on directive.
Earlier in the course when we were building our action button, we talked about the vision directive
and it looks like this.
And then what we do afterwards is we put a colon and then the event that we want to react to.
So for example, when we were building an action button, we said that we could react to a user click
event.
And a click event is one type of event that is possible when the user clicks on something.
Now, when we're dealing with an input field, we obviously don't care about the user clicking on to
it.
We care about the user typing into it.
And so whenever the user types a single character into an input field, it automatically emits an event.
And that event is called input.
All right.
It's a little bit confusing because our HTML element is called input.
And the event that it emits whenever a user types is also called input.
But it makes sense because that's what the user is doing.
They are inputting a value.
So the syntax is von colon followed by the event.
Our event is called input.
As you may also recall from earlier in the course, the shortcut for this syntax, instead of writing
all this out verbosity is to simply put an ATM sign before the event.
So an input is the exact same as V on input.
And the way this works is we provide an equal sign and the name of a method to execute and view will
automatically execute that method whenever this event is triggered.
Right?
So for example, we can define our method here and I'm going to call it update roll.
Where is that method going to be defined?
It's going to be defined in our view configuration object.
Hopefully, this is a little bit of a review of what we did earlier.
So as you may recall, in order to define that method, we defined a separate slice of our view configuration
object and that section is called methods and we set that equal to an object.
And in that object we define whatever methods we want.
So in a just above, I defined a method called update roll.
So I'm going to define a method with the same name here.
Update Roll.
And as you may recall, whenever a view is going to invoke this method, it's going to pass it an argument.
And that argument is going to represent the event object.
The event object is a plain JavaScript object that keeps information about what just happened.
Right?
More metadata and information on that event.
So because view is going to pass in that event object as the very first argument, we can define a parameter
for it here.
So I'm just going to call that object event.
And for now what I'd like to do is just console.log the event object in my browser.
So we'll save that and we'll head to our browser.
And just to show you what this looks like.
Let me refresh the page and I'm going to go into my role input and I'm going to type a couple times
and you'll notice with each letter that I write, Vue is going to trigger that input event, which means
View is going to run that update roll method.
So for example, if I type in Soft for Software Engineer, we're going to see four letters typed.
So four separate input event objects.
And this is coming from our console.log in that method called update roll that we defined.
So on this event object, if I expand it, there's going to be another nested object called Target.
So here is the target object on my event object.
And if I scroll down here, there's going to be a whole bunch of properties and some of these deal with
accessibility and where on the screen the event is and all kinds of additional details that the browser
keeps track of that we really don't care about.
But if I scroll all the way down here.
We're going to find a property called value.
So on the event object there is a target object and on that object there is a value property and that
value property holds the up to date version of what the user has just typed.
So just to reiterate, there's going to be four events triggered, which means on the very first event
object, the target value property is going to be the letter S, then on the next one is going to be
so then so F and finally so forth.
So whatever it is that the user has entered so far.
And if we were to, for example, remove a letter, if I was to press the backspace keep, then that
would trigger another input event and then the value would be so.
F So the most recent event will always have the most recent version of whatever it is that the user
has typed in.
So the key takeaway here, if I returned back to my text editor.
Is that on the event object?
I will have a target object and on the value property I'm going to have whatever is what the user just
typed.
And of course, once I have that value, what do I want to do?
Well, I want to overwrite my components data with it.
Right.
And how can we overwrite a data property in a method?
We access that property using the this keyword.
So in this situation, I want to access this scroll and assign it the value of event that target that
value.
So once again, when the user types right here, even a single character, we're going to invoke the
update roll method which we defined below and pass it the event object which view will automatically
generate.
We're going to receive that object right here is event.
We're going to get the piece of information that we want from it, which is the actual text value.
And then we're going to overwrite our role data property to have the most recent data, the most recent
value.
So again, we are keeping our data and our and our component error template in sync.
So our template is changing.
But as it's changing, we are triggering methods that will in turn update our data.
So let's now do this in reverse, but now we're going to do it for our location property or our location
data property, and we're going to start with our method.
So similarly, we can say, I'm going to have a method called update location and I'm going to assume
it's similarly going to be past an event object, and that event object will be an input event.
So I know it's going to have a target object on it with a value property.
Once I have the user's entered value, which data property do I want to overwrite when the user updates
the location?
That is going to be the location data property which I can access on this dot location and overwrite.
So now we have a method defined in our view configuration object, but obviously we're not using it
anywhere in our template.
So let's wired up.
So right here, I'm going to scroll up.
And right here, we're going to have our input for the location.
So once again, we want to use our VON directive, which is Von.
We then put a colon and the event that we want to react to.
In this case, it is an input event.
However, there is a shortcut to this approach which is just replacing the Von and the colon with an
add sign.
So whenever the input element triggers an input event, what method do we want to run?
We want to run the method we just defined, which is update location.
Once again, within the double quotes we write the method name.
We do not invoke it.
So do not do this.
Just put the method name.
View will automatically invoke it and we will automatically pass it the the event object.
All right.
So before we proceed, there's one more thing I'd like to show you, and then we'll move to the browser.
And that is, if you don't want to define a separate method down below, you can actually do this logic
in line.
And when I say this logic, I mean the overwriting of a data property.
So what I can do instead here is instead of invoking a method, I can write an expression where the
left hand side will be my data property that I want to overwrite.
So in this case, I want to overwrite location and then I do not need to use the this keyword because
I'm using it in my template the exact same way that I can just reference location here.
I can reference location like so in here.
And then to override it, I use an equal sign.
And then instead of instead of passing my event object into a method view is going to give me access
to it right here in line.
But there is one caveat, and that caveat is Vue is going to give it a specific name and that name is
going to be event, but with a dollar sign.
So I'm going to write event right here and then I'm of course going to access the exact same property.
So target and then value.
So just to reiterate the differences here, whenever we do an inline assignment like this, we will
automatically give the event object this name of dollar sign event.
There is nothing special about the dollar sign.
It is a valid JavaScript character that we can use in any name.
But the reason that the view developers want to put it there is for it to be distinct, for you to notice
it and say, Hey, there's something probably special here because as a developer, I'm probably not
going to put a dollar sign in front of any of my variables, which serves to kind of communicate that
this is a view related thing.
So the difference between this and our methods down below is in our methods view will automatically
pass the event object to the method.
But given that we can define the parameter name, we can call this whatever we want, we can call this
event, we can call this E, the name is up to us, right?
But up here the name is not up to us.
We have to write dollar sign event.
Now, what you might see in some code base is because developers would like consistency between the
inline option and the method option is many times they will call the parameter here dollar sign event
just to remind themselves that that is coming from view.
Again, when it comes to us defining our parameter names, we can call this whatever we want, but it's
going to be kind of common to see it actually called Dollar Sign event.
There's nothing wrong with event.
And if you see that strategy in your code base, feel free to stick with it and follow what other developers
are doing.
But I'm going to stick with dollar sign event just to keep it consistent.
And of course, moving back up here, instead of doing this in line, I am going to return it back to
its original implementation, which is calling the update location method.
What I generally prefer to do is to move as much of my business logic outside of my HTML, outside of
my template and store it in my actual JavaScript.
And I think that is a general best practice.
The simpler that your template is to read, the more just focuses on the channel and the structure and
the layout.
While your JavaScript focuses on the business logic, the better.
So while that approach is valid, and I did want to show it to you to give you a more well-rounded understanding
of you in case you see that syntax.
I generally prefer to connect my events to explicit method definitions down below.
So once again, input event will invoke update location.
So let me save this and head to my browser.
And let me refresh the page just to make sure we're on a clean slate and I'm going to open up my view
devtools sled to go to my job search form.
And let's start with our role once again to make sure everything is still working.
I'll enter a role here.
Let's do something like developer and I'm going to save and we're going to see it populate in our input
field.
That is great.
But what is going to happen when I enter a character here, when I update the actual template?
Well, let me add a character here like let's say the exclamation point and you'll notice as soon as
I type it here, it's also going to appear right here in my role data property.
Similarly, if I remove a couple of characters, you might give it a second, but you'll see our role
is going to update.
And then if I add another character back in, it's similarly going to update.
And of course, if I transition here to my location, same rules apply.
So for example, if I type New York City, you'll notice every single time I'm typing that input event
is triggering, which in turn is triggering the respective method to run, which is updating the respective
data properties.
So even something like a space here will automatically trigger that input event.
And you're going to see that space right here in my location data property.
So now we have two way data binding.
The reason it's called two way or bidirectional is because it flows in both directions.
The first direction is from our components data to our template, and the second direction is from our
template to our components data.
Now they are always in sync, they are aligned, they're always going to be equal.
It is now not going to be the case that we're going to have a different data property value compared
to what our input value is on the screen.
We had that problem in the previous lesson.
Now we no longer have it.
All right.
So this is a basic example of two way data binding.
But as you may likely have seen or felt from this lesson, it was kind of a I would say not difficult,
but a verbose kind of explicit way to write out this idea of connecting a piece of data to an input
field.
In the very next lesson, we're going to see a shortcut that you offers us to accomplish the exact same
result.
So I will see you there.